---
layout:     post
title:      "The CrossFit Modeling Problem"
subtitle:   "How do you model exercise?"
date:       2015-06-01 12:00:00
author:     "Dru Sellers"
header-img: "img/post-bg-01.jpg"
---

#Hello there. :)

Welcome to my latest adventure. I'm a software developer that also enjoys the sport of fitness (
aka [CrossFit](http://www.crossfit.com)). As a curious person by nature, I will often think about how I would [model some business](http://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/ramblings/18_starbucks.html)
or interaction in my life in software. I wondered what it would look like to model a workout,
how do you structure it, how do you organize it, especially a sport that is as young as CrossFit is.

A few years ago I tipped my toes in trying to model the domain and immediately found it interesting.
I had certain preconceived notions about how things would work or not work and as usual in a new domain,
I was wrong. I started to have new and vibrant discussions with my coach about how he thought about X
or Y. This has become a fun past time with them, as I am not in any rush to understand so I'm able
to really explore the domain. But since it was just a curiosity, I eventually lost interest and moved
on.

Fast forward to today. I am still interested in the domain, and I have a desire to learn something new.
As a competitor in the sport I am interested in how scoring is done. The [games.crossfit.com](http://games.crossfit.com) website seems to come to a screeching halt during the open, which lead me to wonder if I could (with a simulated load) do better with regards to accepting updates and showing those updates. Given I am a greenfield application, I imagine I could, but its still fun.

Another recent trend is that I've had a lot of fun following a friend of mine as he pursues VC funding for a company of his, combine that with a desire to learn how to build a system on an operating system that isn't windows and a desire to get back to writing and we arrive at my current project. **Event Gone Good** is my new home for
writing and coding in ways that are fun again, and allow me to share some thoughts on programming without
having to resort to some contrived model. At this point I'm hoping to do this all in the open, so
that I can share my lessons as I go and see if in doing so I can't drive even more learning for
myself.

Welcome to the start of my journey!